docs/config/session.rst, before:

.. _conf-session:

================
Session settings
================

.. rubric:: Table of contents

.. contents::
   :local:

Session settings only apply to the currently connected client session.


Usage
=====

To configure a modifiable session setting, use :ref:`SET <ref-set>`, for
example:

.. code-block:: sql

  SET search_path TO myschema, doc;

To retrieve the current value of a session setting, use :ref:`SHOW <ref-show>`
eg:

.. code-block:: sql

  SHOW search_path;

Besides using ``SHOW``, it is also possible to use the :ref:`current_setting
<scalar_current_setting>` :ref:`scalar function <scalar-functions>`.


Supported session settings
==========================

.. _conf-session-search-path:

**search_path**
  | *Default:* ``pg_catalog, doc``
  | *Modifiable:* ``yes``

  The list of schemas to be searched when a relation is referenced without a
  schema.

  CrateDB will try to resolve an unqualified relation name against the
  configured ``search_path`` by iterating over the configured schemas in the
  order they were declared. The first matching relation in the ``search_path``
  is used. CrateDB will report an error if there is no match.

  .. NOTE::

     This setting mirrors the PostgreSQL `search_path`_ setting.

     Some :ref:`PostgreSQL clients <postgres_wire_protocol>` require access to
     various tables in the ``pg_catalog`` schema. Usually, this is to extract
     information about built-in data types or :ref:`functions
     <gloss-function>`.

     CrateDB implements the system ``pg_catalog`` schema and it automatically
     includes it in the ``search_path`` *before* the configured schemas, unless
     it is already explicitly in the schema configuration.

.. _conf-session-enable-hashjoin:

**enable_hashjoin**
  | *Default:* ``true``
  | *Modifiable:* ``yes``

  An :ref:`experimental <experimental-warning>` setting which enables CrateDB
  to consider whether a ``JOIN`` :ref:`operation <gloss-operator>` should be
  :ref:`evaluated <gloss-evaluation>` using the ``HashJoin`` implementation
  instead of the ``Nested-Loops`` implementation.

  .. NOTE::

     It is not always possible or efficient to use the ``HashJoin``
     implementation. Having this setting enabled, will only add the option of
     considering it, it will not guarantee it.  See also the :ref:`available
     join algorithms <available-join-algo>` for more insights on this topic.

.. _conf-session-max_index_keys:

**max_index_keys**
  | *Default:* ``32``
  | *Modifiable:* ``no``

  Shows the maximum number of index keys.

  .. NOTE::

     The session setting has no effect in CrateDB and exists for compatibility
     with ``PostgreSQL``.

.. _conf-session-server_version_num:

**server_version_num**
  | *Default:* ``100500``
  | *Modifiable:* ``no``

  Shows the emulated ``PostgreSQL`` server version.


.. _conf-session-server_version:

**server_version**
  | *Default:* ``10.5``
  | *Modifiable:* ``no``

  Shows the emulated ``PostgreSQL`` server version.

.. _conf-session-optimizer:

**optimizer**
  | *Default:* ``true``
  | *Modifiable:* ``yes``

  This setting indicates whether a query optimizer rule is activated. The name
  of the query optimizer rule has to be provided as a suffix as part of the
  setting e.g. ``SET optimizer_rewrite_collect_to_get = false``.

  .. NOTE::

   The optimizer setting is for advanced use only and can significantly impact
   the performance behavior of the queries.

.. _experimental-warning:

.. WARNING::

  Experimental session settings might be removed in the future even in minor
  feature releases.


.. _search_path: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/static/ddl-schemas.html#DDL-SCHEMAS-PATH

Commit message:

add a session setting, errorOnUnknownObjectKey to suppress exceptions when querying unknown obj fields

docs/config/session.rst, after:

.. _conf-session:

================
Session settings
================

.. rubric:: Table of contents

.. contents::
   :local:

Session settings only apply to the currently connected client session.


Usage
=====

To configure a modifiable session setting, use :ref:`SET <ref-set>`, for
example:

.. code-block:: sql

  SET search_path TO myschema, doc;

To retrieve the current value of a session setting, use :ref:`SHOW <ref-show>`
eg:

.. code-block:: sql

  SHOW search_path;

Besides using ``SHOW``, it is also possible to use the :ref:`current_setting
<scalar_current_setting>` :ref:`scalar function <scalar-functions>`.


Supported session settings
==========================

.. _conf-session-search-path:

**search_path**
  | *Default:* ``pg_catalog, doc``
  | *Modifiable:* ``yes``

  The list of schemas to be searched when a relation is referenced without a
  schema.

  CrateDB will try to resolve an unqualified relation name against the
  configured ``search_path`` by iterating over the configured schemas in the
  order they were declared. The first matching relation in the ``search_path``
  is used. CrateDB will report an error if there is no match.

  .. NOTE::

     This setting mirrors the PostgreSQL `search_path`_ setting.

     Some :ref:`PostgreSQL clients <postgres_wire_protocol>` require access to
     various tables in the ``pg_catalog`` schema. Usually, this is to extract
     information about built-in data types or :ref:`functions
     <gloss-function>`.

     CrateDB implements the system ``pg_catalog`` schema and it automatically
     includes it in the ``search_path`` *before* the configured schemas, unless
     it is already explicitly in the schema configuration.

.. _conf-session-enable-hashjoin:

**enable_hashjoin**
  | *Default:* ``true``
  | *Modifiable:* ``yes``

  An :ref:`experimental <experimental-warning>` setting which enables CrateDB
  to consider whether a ``JOIN`` :ref:`operation <gloss-operator>` should be
  :ref:`evaluated <gloss-evaluation>` using the ``HashJoin`` implementation
  instead of the ``Nested-Loops`` implementation.

.. _conf-session-error_on_unknown_object_key:

**error_on_unknown_object_key**
  | *Default:* ``true``
  | *Modifiable:* ``yes``

  This setting controls the behaviour of querying unknown object keys to
  dynamic objects. CrateDB will throw an error by default if any of the queried
  object keys are unknown or will return a null if the setting is set to false.

  .. NOTE::

     It is not always possible or efficient to use the ``HashJoin``
     implementation. Having this setting enabled, will only add the option of
     considering it, it will not guarantee it.  See also the :ref:`available
     join algorithms <available-join-algo>` for more insights on this topic.

.. _conf-session-max_index_keys:

**max_index_keys**
  | *Default:* ``32``
  | *Modifiable:* ``no``

  Shows the maximum number of index keys.

  .. NOTE::

     The session setting has no effect in CrateDB and exists for compatibility
     with ``PostgreSQL``.

.. _conf-session-server_version_num:

**server_version_num**
  | *Default:* ``100500``
  | *Modifiable:* ``no``

  Shows the emulated ``PostgreSQL`` server version.


.. _conf-session-server_version:

**server_version**
  | *Default:* ``10.5``
  | *Modifiable:* ``no``

  Shows the emulated ``PostgreSQL`` server version.

.. _conf-session-optimizer:

**optimizer**
  | *Default:* ``true``
  | *Modifiable:* ``yes``

  This setting indicates whether a query optimizer rule is activated. The name
  of the query optimizer rule has to be provided as a suffix as part of the
  setting e.g. ``SET optimizer_rewrite_collect_to_get = false``.

  .. NOTE::

   The optimizer setting is for advanced use only and can significantly impact
   the performance behavior of the queries.

.. _experimental-warning:

.. WARNING::

  Experimental session settings might be removed in the future even in minor
  feature releases.


.. _search_path: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/static/ddl-schemas.html#DDL-SCHEMAS-PATH
